look guys in the history of United
States of America Mothers Against Drunk
Driving is one of the most successful
examples of a civil society organization
okay they lobbied for social political
change they have a huge foundation
they've got a voice in government they
passed legislation that they wanted
passed they changed the history of the
world they have public education and
outreach campaigns huge presence in high
schools reaching out to the youth and
thus ultimately the Fed impact changing
the culture but unlike veganism their
whole movement is based on something
highly visible that everyone sees the
reality of day by day on the front page
of the newspaper and on the side of the
road as they drive down the highway okay
car crashes have a kind of reality an
indisputable impossible to ignore
impossible Bobby a reality that everyone
in the political process faces up to
right the car crashes literally stack up
by the side of the road that dead bodies
stack up at the morgue the headlines
stack up in the newspaper and there's a
sense in which we can really easily
imagine an alternate history an
alternate universe in which Mothers
Against Drunk Driving never existed in
which there was no public login campaign
but basically basically the same legal
changes happen basically the same
cultural changes happen maybe not as
fast maybe not in the same way because
we can all imagine so easily that one
way or another people have to face up to
the awesome sense of responsibility that
getting drunk and driving a car can lead
to the deaths of hapless strangers and
everyone knows someone who's been in a
drunk driving accident whether it's
fatal or not and everyone sees in the
newspaper
these actions probably okay but what we
do here in veganism is invisible unless
we make it visible all right the only
time the
animals getting slaughtered appear in
the newspaper is if the truck brings
them to the slaughterhouse gets a car
crash if you die rhotic Lee I have seen
that where you know people don't give a
damn if a million cows get slaughtered
but there are 20 cows and the car has a
car crash and then that's a big deal in
the newspapers the cows end up some of
the cows end up running around free or
some story like that cows sheep pigs we
do have stories of that about car
crashes right I kind of see one
generation after another here in the
demi-monde here in vegan YouTube they
sign up with a certain sense of idealism
and purpose and then they get
disenchanted they lose that sense of
purpose and they need to even feel
ashamed they feel ashamed to be just a
youtube Leegin right and as I've said
many times myself talking on YouTube is
not real activism it's not now I'm going
to put in a cab you hear I got an email
from my boy Dorney Dorney is a vegan
activist in Ireland and Dorney really
does have a vegan community he does have
a circle of fellow activists he does
have a movement he's a part of and he
made the choice that for him there was
just no point in producing the same kind
of YouTube content that other people
were already producing so he would quit
YouTube but he would continue in the
movement and he has a real moment the
apartment okay so shout out Dorney
that's great I can totally relate to
that if you've got that luxury you've
got that choice for the vast majority of
us we don't have that choice for the
vast majority of us in YouTube or maybe
for you it's Facebook or whatever let's
just stick with YouTube for this video
YouTube may be the only little piece of
the movement you've got any control over
but you've got any ownership of that you
can participate okay maybe that's
because you live somewhere where there
is no vegan community and I know you
know I spoke to an Israeli filmmaker the
Israeli documentary filmmaker who made a
life according to ohad and when I talked
to him he said that for him watching my
videos was a bit surreal because I
talked about the fact that veganism
the community isn't yet but its own
conspire to be it isn't really even a
movement yet but it's like to aspire to
be because this guy this filmmaker he
lives in Tel Aviv he lives in one of the
only places in the world where it really
has already reached that critical mass
where it really is a movement it really
is a community they really do have the
kind of events and institutions you know
that I'm saying veganism desperately
needs and doesn't have right so the way
you may just live somewhere I mean as I
did in Victoria BC as I did many place
in the world where there is no movement
or no community for you to be a part of
and the other hand a lot of you a lot
you know what I'm talking about whether
or not you ever fess up on the internet
wouldn't you have a reflect on a lot of
you may be living in places where there
are other vegan activists there are
other aspiring vegans who want to make
plus difference in the world but you're
really needed from them
or they are alienated from you there are
some barriers whether they're political
differences or simply you regard them as
crazy or they regard you as crazy to you
regardless of who's at fault maybe
you're all crazy but there are some
differences where you can't cooperate
with them they can't cooperate with you
maybe they're too left-wing maybe
they're to right-wing maybe they're just
too stupid maybe they're obsessed with
particular issues in the movement that
you don't want to get involved with you
totally possibly are living somewhere
where the vegans are only doing
anti-vivisection activism where they're
only doing anti-fur activism and for you
that's not where it's at right you could
be living somewhere I mean the social
side they will do a begin picnic once
with only thing the people were
talking about was food you know like
obviously there are a lot of Facebook
groups like that there were a lot of
YouTube channel for that and you know
I'm saying there it's like yeah you know
we can talk about you know where to buy
where to buy cheaper strawberries like
you you how where is this conversation
going you like you can sit down with
your meeting on some peakins
and there's no potential for activism
because they're vegans who are only
interested in lifestyle they're only
interested in food only restartable
gourmet cooking or something you know
this place that totally fine but if
that's it if that's all you've got in
common substantial you could be elated
for them
for that reason so look guys I mean if
your YouTube begin
don't be ashamed don't get you know
disheartened don't lose your motivation
and don't drop out for that reason I've
seen people like Jason Posey no you know
look people come into this and they say
how much it means to them and how
important it is when they're on the way
in and then when they're on the way out
when they quit they pretend it never
meant anything like it never mattered
you know it matter this is a big part of
your life well a lot of us it is whether
you have 300 viewers or 30,000 viewers
wherever you're at in the demi-monde man
making and uploading videos talking real
talk sharing your hopes and aspirations
in your life it matters it matters now
and it's going to matter 10 years from
now when you look back on those videos
it may matter 20 years from now when you
watch those videos with your own kids or
your grandkids I just made that video
talking about how did I first get
involved with Cambodia right what if my
daughter asked me that question 20 years
from now I can give an answer then 20
years from now but it won't be the same
as the answer I gave today it's very
meaningful just to the amount on what
life to have that kind of video as a
record of who I am how to change and
it's meaningful to YouTube what do you
think of it in those terms not what you
have kids are not however you think of
your own future for your future
personally and for the future of the
movement I really think it is meaningful
in a guy like Jason fizzy know he worked
so hard at one stage he was in
durianrider shadow and then he worked so
hard to get at a dirty minor shadow but
one stage he was the guy standing next
to durianrider at the Thai fruit
festival that's how people knew him he
was literally the guy standing there
staring right at those events and then
he was known for the longest time as hey
Nia's boyfriend the guy standing next to
Hannya and he worked so hard to get out
of that he worked so hard to build up a
you know an internet presence on his own
terms and then at some point he just
decides to throw it away like it's
nothing like never really mattered now
on some level depending on what your
video content is but I can identify with
that if your videos are about permanent
vacation course of course it's
meaningless if your videos are about
going swimming whether it's insane
my or in Greece or in Germany videos
about weight loss how much do you really
have to say about weight loss of course
you're going to run out of your good or
out of the content at some point sure
you're going to move on but if your
videos are about you if your videos
about your life your hope your
aspirations if your videos are about
this movement if your videos are about
giving voice to the voiceless don't be
ashamed don't be ashamed because at the
end of the day this is not like a car
crash this is something invisible the
animals have no voice unless you give
voice to the animals the ecological
issues are completely invisible unless
someone stands up and complains about
them nobody sees the difference between
a polluted river on a non polluted river
most the time we don't see the
difference of air pollution or any other
stuff and above all else dreams do not
exist without dreamers and other people
won't even know the dream is out there
and to live if we don't stand up and
make our voices heard and talk about our
lives talk about our hopes and
inspiration and say yeah I dream this
dream too I'm another person's out there
I don't want to be part of a society
that's built on the infinite
exploitation of animals the unending
meaningless slaughter of millions of
animals I don't want to be a part of
that culture I want this culture to
change I want to be in a future on a
planet or in a country or in a society
or in a community or in a suburb where
people see the value of an animal's life
as more than zero as being enough you
know just sacrifice the the fleeting
pleasure of the difference between a you
know hamburger made at a tofu and a
hamburger made out of rotting carcasses
you know all the other levels do I have
to repeat this stuff you guys but if
you're not talking about that dream and
what it means in your life whether
that's the suffering you go through or
the aspirations of the joys you know the
good and the bad of it nobody is going
to know and it means so much it means a
lot to your fellow vegans it means a lot
to your family members it means a lot to
the people who know you personally it
means a lot of the people who will know
you personally who haven't met you yet
there are people who are my friends now
who can watch my youtube videos from two
years ago and really understand who I am
where I'm come
Ramin you know don't be ashamed yeah it
would be great if you could be the head
of an influential and important
foundation like PCRM or even if you
could be a retino a minor secretary or
functionary
in an institution like pea serum the
vast majority of us can't be the vast
majority of us never will be okay it'd
be great if you can be doing real world
activism that's really effective and
really meaningful or real-world research
or running your own vegan restaurant or
your own foundation sure but if this is
all you've got really remember it's
worth a lot more than nothing because
this movement if we don't communicate it
if we don't make it real and accessible
and meaningful for one another for new
vegans in the future for the friends and
family we've already got for the friends
and family we haven't met yet then
unlike that car crash on the side of the
road this it is that this is a disaster
that everyone's going to ignore no one's
going to know that it even exists and no
one is going to know how much it means
and why it matters to you and me